Contributing Member use case (#288)
ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT: doc/usecases/gain_free_membership.md

Reviewer: Please rename to "contribution_membership", free implies you get it for free, which is not the case...

# Use Case: Gain Free Membership

## Summary

- **Scope:** Membership
- **Level:** User Goal
- **Actors:** App User

> - **Brief:** The user receives a free membership through using the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Brief:** The user receives a free membership through contributions.
```

- **Status:** Draft

## Scenarios

- **Precondition:**
  - The user already has an existing membership OR
  - The user has currently no membership.
- **Main success scenario:**

>   - The user can receive PermaplanT points through various activities in the app, like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The user can receive permacoins through various activities in the app, like:
```

    - gaining [Blossoms](./gamification/gain_blossoms.md) in the Expert Track.
    - getting likes from other users on their reviews.
    - getting [approvals](./polyculture/review_plant_relationships.md) on their submitted [plant relationships](./polyculture/add_plant_relationships.md).

>     - getting their comments on a map marked as helpful by the maps owner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - getting their comments on a map marked as helpful by the maps owner.
    - recruit of new members.
```

>   - The user can see their exact count of PermaplanT points in their profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The user can see their exact count of current and previous permacoins in their profile.
```

>   - When reaching a certain milestone with the amount of gathered PermaplanT points, the user will be given the current year of membership for free.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If the user applied for the contribution membership and when reaching a certain milestone with the amount of gathered permacoins, the user will be given the current calender year of membership without compensation via money.
```

>   - PermaplanT points will be reset to zero at the end of the membership year.

Reviewer: We remember all permacoins of every year in a protocol (that only gets expanded and never changed). The user starts every year from 0. Please clarify this here.

```suggestion
```

- **Alternative scenario:**

>   - The user does not gather enough PermaplanT points and has to pay the full price for this years membership.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The user does not gather enough permacoins and has to pay the full price for this years membership.
```

- **Error scenario:**

>   - Due to an internal server error, the user is charged with this years membership even though (s)he gathered enough points.
>     In this case, the user can contact the PermaplanT team via official channels so that an administrator can investigate the eligibility of the user for a free membership.

Reviewer: This doesn't really add something to the use case, it simply states the obvious:

```suggestion
```

- **Postcondition:**

>   - The user can use the app for free if (s)he is a valuable member of the community.

Reviewer: please avoid "free" also here.

- **Non-functional Constraints:**

>   - The amount of gathered PermaplanT point in each year should be kept in the database for administrative purposes.

Reviewer: Should already be clear above, so probably not needed here.
